Passage:
The Blue Masjid reflects the architectural style of both the Ottoman masjid and
Byzentine church. Hagia Sofia, a masjid, one of the wonders of the Muslim architecture,
was also kept in view as a model. The Blue Masjid even today is considered to be
unmatched in splendour, majesty and size.
The masjid has a spacious forecourt surrounded by a continuous vaulted arcade. It has
ablution facilities on both the sides. In the centre, there is a fountain which is rather small
in contrast with the magnitude of the courtyard. A heavy iron chain is hung at the upper
part of the court entrance at the western side. This side was meant for the Sultan alone.
The chain was put there so the Sultan had to lower his head every time he entered the
court. It was the symbolic gesture to ensure the humility of the ruler in the face of the
divine power.
The interior of the masjid at the lower end is lined with more than 20,000 hand-made
ceramic tiles in more than 50 different tulip designs. At the gallery level, the design
becomes flamboyant with representation of flowers, fruit and cypresses.
The upper part of the interior is adorned with blue paint. More than 200 stained glass
windows with intricate designs allow natural light to brighten up its interior and the
chandeliers further illuminate it with their glow. The decorations include A‟yat from the
Holy Quran. The floors are covered with carpets.
The most important element in the interior of the masjid is the mehrab, which is made of
finely carved marble. To the right of mehrab, is a richly decorated pulpit. The masjid is
so designed that even when it is most crowded, everyone in the masjid can listen and look
at the Imam

Question:
Write down the summary of the passage. Also suggest a suitable title. 

Answer:
Title: The Blue Masjid. Summary: The Blue Masjid is the architectural blend of the Ottoman Masjid and Byzentine church. Hagia Sofia is also kept as a wonder of the Muslim architecture. The Masjid has a place for ablution and fountain in the courtyard. The Sultan always lowered his head due to the iron chain hung at the entrance to show modesty in front of the Creator. The lower end of the Masjid was decorated with ceramic tiles. The Mehrab is made of carved marble. Everyone can listen and look at the Imam in a crowded Masjid.
